# Overview

Today I'm going to be showing off my Arch Linux setup. Yes, I use Arch BTW.

My overall setup is made for work, I don't really care for the latest rice trends if you're looking for that go [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/). I just want a clear easy-to-use system so my theme is just black and white.

[dotfiles](https://github.com/mattboan/dot)

<br>

# System

Just some of my favorites:

<b>Distro:</b> Arch Linux

<b>WM:</b> i3-gaps

<b>Bar:</b> polybar

<b>Menu:</b> rofi

<br>

# Arch Linux

So why Arch? For the usual reasons, I just like having an empty system that only has what I want, I grew up with limited hardware, and having a system that can squeeze every hertz is a system I'll be using. It's also really rewarding to learn how the whole OS if something is missing you have to figure out what that is and you just get a better overall understanding of your OS.

<br>

# i3-gaps

So I use i3-gaps for the speed, being able to switch between applications without touching the mouse has been a game changer speed is the name of the game. I have experimented with Wayland Sway, and I have to say I think I'll be switching soon, the graphical artifacts in i3 are just too often and frustrating. Make sure you stay subscribed to see how I go about that.

<br>

# Polybar

Polybar is my favorite bar so far, it just does the job and does it well. It's really fun creating bash scripts to create custom modules. The modules I'm running in polybar:

-   Workspaces
-   Date & Time
-   Weather
-   Main Storage
-   Volume
-   Cava
-   GPU Temp
-   CPU
-   Memory
-   Wifi
-   Bluetooth

<br>

# Rofi

Rofi is great, super fast, and convenient to open applications. I bind Super+Space to open because sometimes I have to use macOS for work and for those not in the know that's what opens macs equivalent "Spotlight". Highly recommend.

<br>

# Editors

<br>

### Visual Studio Code

I use vscode mainly because it's what I'm mostly used to and when working or for general programming tasks I find it very beneficial to be able to work fast and efficiently. My biggest complaint is how much memory is being used, it runs on the V8 engine which is crazy when you think about it 99% of the time I just want to be able to edit text.
<br>

### Neovim

Over the past year, I have been slowly integrating my workflow with neovim. I can see the benefits in speed when I can remember damn the key bindings. But rest assured my fellow neckbeards I think the only way I'm going to get over this learning curve is to just suffer the loss and unplug the mouse.

<br>

# Conclusion

So overall this is my setup, pretty basic, pretty bare-bones, etc. I'll update this post fairly regularly so make sure to subscribe for updates! Thanks for your time and let's fill the [void](https://www.voidstudios.com.au).
